PAUL LEWIS: Hello, and welcome
to this "Supercharged TL;DW."
Last week, Summer and
I built a 3D card flip.
Let me show you what
we got to building.
So you can see I've got
this card on screen.
And when I click on it,
it flips over in 3D.
And there are
shadows and all sorts
of things underneath as well
to make it look just right.
Now, the other
thing I've done is
I've taken a timeline recording.
And you can see that
it's hitting a comfy 60
frames a second.
And it probably would--
well, it is doing the same
on most mobile devices as well.
So with that said, let
me show you actually
how we got to building it.
And of course, that requires a
trip to the most famous corner
of them all-- Theory Corner.
Hello, my theoretical chums.
Welcome to Theory Corner.
So let's do a little bit
of 3D theory-- not loads.
Don't worry about it.
It's not that bad.
So imagine we have our
axes-- x, y, and zed--
or z, depending on
what you prefer.
And imagine our screen is at the
front here and so is the card.
Now, what we need to do is
we need to push the card back
into z space so
that it's got space
to come forward and flip
over and go back again.
So we push it back in z space.
Now, the way we do that
is we put perspective
on the containing element.
And the perspective value
is always in pixels,
according to the spec--
or mostly is, anyway.
And so we push this
card back, say,
by 200 pixels or something.
And when we do that, we find
that the card gets smaller,
as it does in real life.
The further things are away from
us, the smaller they appear.
So that's fair enough.
But we don't want the card
to appear small, necessarily.
We just want it to
start at its actual size
but be 200 pixels away from it.
So what we do is we
look at the spec.
And it says, well, in order to
figure out how much something
has been scaled down, you
take the perspective value,
and you divide it by
perspective minus the distance
that you've moved your thing.
So let's say we've
got a perspective
value of 500 pixels.
To figure out what we need to
do for the scaling of this card,
we say 500 over 500
minus minus 200,
because we moved it
minus 200 pixels in z.
That tells us that
we've got to scale down.
It's scaled down by 0.71.
Well, we want to
scale it up, so we
have to do 1 over that value.
So we can scale it by 1
over 0.71, which works out
to a very convenient 1.4.
So now our card is scaled up.
What we can do is we
can set up an animation
to bring it forward, flip it
over, and push it back again.
So that's just the 3D card flip.
We'll talk about the shadows and
so on when we get to the code.
In fact, talking of code,
let's go and look at some.
Welcome back to the codey bit.
Now what we'll do is we'll have
a look at some of this code.
In fact, let's look
at the HTML first.
We have an SC card.
It's a custom element.
We normally do this.
It's just for convenience
and because it's actually
quite handy to do that.
You don't have to do that.
It would work just fine
if you had divs and so on.
And for now, we can
ignore the attributes
that we've added on here.
The main thing is we've got this
front and we've got this back.
And in fact, if we look at the
styles for this front and back,
mostly it's just going
to be absolute position
and so on, because we want
the front and the back
to appear over the
top of each other.
But the super
interesting bit, I think,
is the back face
visibility set to hidden.
We do this because
we want to make sure
that even if the two
halves of the card
are placed over the
top of each other,
if one has got its back to
us, we don't see it anymore.
And that's actually a
really important thing here.
We need to make sure
that only the side that
is facing towards
us as the camera
is the one that's
actually visible,
so we switch back
face visibility
to hidden for the front
and the back of the cards.
Now, when it comes
to the JavaScript,
most of the time, most of this
code is fairly boilerplate,
I suppose, except for
this actual flip function,
which is the meat of what
we actually get into.
So let's have a look at that.
Now, what we're doing is we're
setting up-- first of all,
we're setting up this scale,
which we talked about over here
in Theory Corner.
We need to know how much our
card needs to be scaled up by.
Now, I've hardcoded these
values, a more generalized
version.
You take the actual
dimensions yourself,
and you'd figure out
exactly what you need to do.
I'm not going to do that in
this particular situation,
but you can do that.
Because what we said over
there, it's actually--
I've inverted it.
So rather than it being
500 over 500 plus 200,
I've actually done
500 plus 200 over 500.
That's going to give
us the 1.4 value here.
OK.
With the scaling done, let's
talk about side 2 and side 2.
Now, the card could be
with its back facing to us
or its front facing to us, so we
just call it side 1 and side 2.
And we just choose
whichever one of these
is going to make sense depending
on whether the card is facing
us on one side or the other.
Side 1, side 2-- they're
pretty much the same thing.
They're an array of key
frames, and each key frame
is an object.
And in this case, we
have the transform.
So let's step through
what we do for side 1.
Basically, what
we're saying here
is we're going to push it back
200 pixels, like we discussed.
We're going to set its
rotation to 0 degrees,
and we're going to
scale it up so that it
looks at the correct size.
Then we bring the card
forward by 100 pixels,
and we leave the
rotation where it is
and the scale where
it is as well.
Next keyframe, we're going
to be still at minus 100,
but this time, we're going to
rotate the card across the x-
or the y-axis, depending on
which one we want to use,
by 180 degrees.
And then finally, we're
going to push the card back
to minus 200 pixels in z space.
Side 2 is pretty
much the same thing,
except that instead of
going from 0 to 180 degrees,
it's going from 180
degrees to 360 degrees.
So we know that's going to
work for us, because basically,
we've got back face
visibility hidden.
We've got one card that's
180 degrees and one
side of the card
that says 0 degrees.
And we will just
basically choose
which one needs to be side 1 and
which one needs to be side 2.
And you can see
that is down here.
If the card is on
its front side,
we're going to animate
front as side 1.
If it's on its back, then front
will be animated as side 2.
So we basically hot-swap
between those two.
So that gives us the
card flipping over,
and that works just great.
Let's have a quick
chat about the shadows.
Now, I'm not going to
spend a lot of time
on this, because we spent
a good amount of time
on the livestream.
And if you've got
a spare hour, it's
definitely worth
your time, this one.
There's loads of really
interesting bits and pieces
in there about why we can't
use a blur filter, why
we can't use box shadow.
There's loads of stuff in there.
But if you can't
watch the livestream,
there is actually an
accompanying blog post.
We'll put an annotation or put
it in the description below.
Have a read at that.
It really does get into
9-slicing, and using SVG,
and how it is we're
actually going
to do a performance
shadow that's
disconnected from the element
that it's actually shadowing.
It's really an
interesting technique.
What we have, though,
is we have two shadows.
We have what I'm calling
the umbra and the penumbra.
And the umbra is the
really tight shadow
with a little bit of blur.
And it looks like this.
It's got a little
bit of blur, and it's
SVG, which you can see here.
It's SVG with a Gaussian
blur with a deviation of 2.
And we just have
a black rectangle
that's been blurred by it.
The penumbra is a
blurry version again.
And it's got a blur of,
I think, 12 pixels on it.
And what we do is we actually
fade from one to the other.
So when the card is
like this and it's
at the back of--
200 pixels back,
we use that very tight and less
blurry version of the shadow.
Watch closely as we
do the animation.
We fade from that to the
penumbra, the blurrier version.
And that is exactly what
we'd expect in real life.
As something gets further
away from a plane,
its shadow is going to
get blurrier and bigger.
And so that's what we're
trying to mimic here.
And it's a subtle
thing, but it's
going to give it the
feeling of reality.
And the code for it
is very, very much
the same as the other stuff.
We have an umbra and a
penumbra, and we fade.
You can see not only do we do
the rotation stuff that we were
doing before, we translate the
shadows down and then back up
again.
And we also fade the opacity.
So you can see that the
smaller, tighter, less blurry
version goes from 0.3 to
0 and then back up to 0.3,
and the blurrier one
follows it, moves
in exactly the same way,
same rotation, and so on,
but it goes from 0 to 0.5
and then back down again.
So it's crossfading
between those two shadows
to give us that effect.
And finally, finally, finally,
right at the end of this,
we have the animation
call for the pair of them.
And when the penumbra-- the
blurry one, when it's finished
animating, we basically
unlock the card
so that people can tap on it
again, and we flip the side.
We know that we've
flipped the card over,
so now we just say if
you're on the front,
you're now on your back.
And if you're on your back,
you're now on the front.
And that is basically
all that goes into this.
So there you have it.
That's how you can
make a 3D card flip.
You can check out the
blog post on the shadow
stuff and 9-slicing, really
interesting stuff there.
You can have a watch
at the livestream.
That was about an hour.
And as I say, it's got loads
of super cool stuff in there.
Definitely worth your time.
And of course, you can
subscribe to this show.
You can subscribe
to this channel,
and you'll find loads
of amazing content.
They're definitely
worth checking out,
[INAUDIBLE] with Rob Dodson.
I didn't have time to
talk about the inert stuff
that we're using here,
but that's super cool.
Definitely check out that show.
And I will catch you with
[INAUDIBLE] next time.
Don't forget that
you can subscribe.
One of those two will work.
Or you can watch the livestream.
And I am not going
anywhere until you
do one of those two things.
I'm still here.